-: Welcome back.
In this demo,
we are going to add the external DNS annotation
for our Kubernetes ingress service,
and then test it
and then see that whether our DNS records
got automatically created
by external DNS in Route 53 hosted zones.
So let's see the network design once before moving on.
So in the ingress service,
we are going to add the external DNS-related annotations.
And after that,
it is going to automatically add the DNS names
in the AWS Route 53 hosted zones,
and we'll be able to test those DNS names
by accessing them directly in the browser, right?
So now let's go back to our GitHub repository
and enter into the section 0807,
use external DNS for Kubernetes ingress, right?
And if you see here,
update ingress manifest by adding external DNS annotation.
So let's come back here
to our Visual Studio code
and enter into the section 0807,
use external DNS for Kubernetes ingress
and 010203 Kubernetes manifest
for NGINX app one, app two, app three,
no changes coming from the previous sections,
and 04ALB ingress SSL redirect
with external DNS is the thing
which we are going to update here, right?
So in this, the name of the ingress service
is going to be ingress external DNS demo,
and load balance, her name is external DNS ingress.
And if you come down here,
so this is the external DNS-related annotation.
And inside that,
we are providing comma-separated two DNS names:
dnstest901.stacksimplify.com,
DNS test 902.stacksimplify.com.
So like this, you can add multiple DNSs
or multiple subdomains,
or even we have provided,
currently, we didn't comment this part.
We commented this part
so that all the hosted zones will be applicable here,
which means I have something called DevOps in cloud.
So I can say abc.devops in cloud.
So one more DNS will be added with abc.devops in cloud
inside that DevOps in cloud hosted zone.
See domain filter.
We didn't provide any filter here.
So which means all the applicable domains
present in hosted zone can be added here,
not only stacksimplify.com.
So you can use other domains also
because you have commented that option here
and said that all the hosted zones present
are applicable here to add the DNS entries
by external DNS.
For now, we are going to test
with the dnstest901.stacksimplify.com
and dnstest902.stacksimplify.com.
In addition to that, another important thing here is,
so if you need to ensure that this should be your domain.com
and also ensure that your certificate here
are also updated with your own certificate error
in this ingress manifest, right?
From your account, whatever the error is there,
that one, you update it.
So now let's go back to our GitHub report
and move on to the next step
which is deploy this Kubernetes manifest and then test it.
So let's come back to terminal, clear,
and come out of deploy external DNS-related section
which is 0806 and go inside 0807.
Use external DNS for ingress Kubernetes.
And let's say LS-LRTA and Kube manifest
just to check that we have all the files 01, 02, 03,
and then 04, right?
And we'll say kubectl, apply-F kube manifest.
So this should deploy the app one, app two,
app three related deployment and NodePort services
and also create
the external DNS-related ingress service, right?
So now this is created.
Another important thing here is the most important thing
is let's keep monitoring your external DNS logs
so that we'll get the clarity.
Let's wait for it.
So we can see here, create dns901stacksimplify.com
and 902.stacksimplify.com.
This is our core goal to verify that, right?
So now let's go to Route 53 and go to stacksimplify.com
and if you see here, DNS test 901, DNS test 902.
And if you see the values inside them, right?
So this is the external DNS ingress-related manifest
load balancer service, so 144 863 844.
So now let's come back here
and go to the EC2 and find the same name here.
So let's come back here and go to load balancers,
and you should find the load balancer related DNS name,
externaldns-ingress-1448638444.
And here also, you'll find the same thing, right?
1448638444, which means the DNS name,
whatever you have created,
is associated with your external ingress related DNS name.
Load balancer DNS name successfully.
So now the next thing here is go
and then do the NS lookup tests, right?
So let's come back here.
So you have verified your external DNS pod
with the create, create, create, create.
All the things are good.
So let's come out and do it,
and let's look up test for DNS test 901
and it is resolving to the IP address
and also verify for 902
and it is resolving to the IP address.
So that is good.
And if you want, you can access the application DNS test 901
and then 902.
So let me close this IAM,
come back here, and DNS test 901 is good
and this is app one is good
and app two with a DNS test 901 is good
and also we'll access the root context also.
So all redirected from http to https
and everything is accessible with DNS test 901.
So now close this tab
and if you want,
you can also access with DNS test 902, right?
You are accessing the http URL
and it should auto redirect to https, right?
You can see the certificate lock symbol here.
And app one is good and if we want,
we can also access the app two with 902 and that is good
and root context also we can access and then test it.
So this completes the verification
of using the external DNS with the ingress service, right?
And another important thing here is when you are testing it,
this should be you domain name.
And now, we'll go ahead and then clean up this
and it should also delete the 901
and then 902 DNS records, why?
Because if you go back here, right?
So if you go back to here
and if you see you have commented this policy upset only,
so which means it should be in the full synchronization.
Whenever you delete your ingress resource,
automatically, the DNS records updated
inside that ingress service, right?
Whatever is present inside that
in the external DNS related annotation,
so those should get automatically deleted.
So let's go here and say kubectl,
delete-F, and Kube manifest.
And once you delete it, immediately go ahead
and then start monitoring your external DNS logs, right?
So let it delete, right?
Ingress service is getting deleted.
So let's wait for the command line to come for us.
We'll monitor the logs here
and let's wait for it, wait for the logs.
So you can see create logs you have seen.
Let's wait further delete logs
in the external DNS logs for external DNS pod.
In meantime, we can go here and then verify
if our load balancer is successfully deleted.
So this is good.
So we need to always ensure
that our application load balancer is successfully deleted.
By any chance it is present,
again, it is going to add cost for us.
See now, you are back to your external DNS pod logs
and you can see it is having the desire change,
which is a delete so and so DNSs
and it has deleted those DNSs
and successfully updated that hosted zone.
So now come back here and go to Route 53
and go back and again go inside stacksimplify.com
and you should not find anything related
to DNS test 901 or 902.
So which means whenever you have created
that ingress resource,
it has automatically created those external DNS records
in the Route 53 using external DNS.
And whenever you have deleted
or destroyed your ingress resource
or you undeployed your ingress resource,
automatically, external DNS also remove your DNS entries
from your Route 53 service.
So this completes the external DNS
with ingress service demo.
In the next demo, we are going to do the external DNS
with regular Kubernetes service demo.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye. Thank you.